# AI-based-fuel-monitoring-system- A motorbike has a coarse fuel level indicator (with five to six levels), which might prove to be risky, as the motorbike rider may not be aware of the actual level of fuel left in the tank. Due to this, he or she might get stranded at a place far away from the nearest petrol station. To solve this major issue, there are facilities such as a reserve petrol tank in the bikes too. In developing countries, motorbikes are used by lower or middle-income individuals. As a result, some people are hesitant to fill the petrol tank even after it reaches the reserve level. There are chances that such riders may fail to predict the last level of petrol in their tanks and get stuck in a position wherein they need to tow their bike. To solve this issue, we have proposed a system that uses image processing techniques to keep the rider informed about precise fuel status up to 0.1 liters. Our system captures images with the help of a 5-megapixel camera and further processes them to estimate distance with accuracy in meters per ml. Also, a voice alert (using text to speech) is generated in case of a sudden drop in the fuel level. These drops can occur due to leakage or theft of fuel. We could achieve accuracy up to 94.87 % in the prediction of KM per liter of fuel. The potentiality of the system to work on a real-time basis makes it more deployable on the motorbike. The proposed high-resolution level measurement system is portable and can even be used for the detection of other liquids such as oil, water, etc.
